# Group 10 Analytics Class Project
Our client, Kirk Bogard, is seeking relevant data on the job market and salary trends to better guide the farmer school of business. The question we are answering for Kirk is: What are the macro placement and salary trends we are seeing over the past three years? Our information will aid in providing companies with relevant infomation on why they should recruit from FSB as well as targeting companies that are good fits for students. The information provided will help students in understanding the current job market and how they can get placed with a company.

We will create interactive tables and static bar charts on the data to better understand the relationship between placement and salary trends for FSB overall and by major.

## READ ME - this is the read me that correlates with the neccessary steps and order of operations for reproduction of our results.

This document is meant to provide you with the capability to reproduce our results, give an explanation of all relevant files, and provide you with the proper order of operations. 

To start, in our R-project a few files were automatically generated, and this may differ depending on your version of R-studio. The files we had were: RprojUser and Rhistory. Do not delete auto-generated files, because you may interfere with your R project.

Our Source Data file is ‘FSB_BI_Survey_2019_2021.rds’ , you will need to use our Student SUccess R project before doing anything else with the data. Once the R-project is open, run the Data Cleaning RMD file.This will result in the ‘datacleaned.csv’ file, which is much easier to use in a data analytics environment. The next step is to begin creating the dashboard and interactive elements for the client. Run the Final Dashboard RMD file, and you now have run all necessary files to produce our results and dashboard.

A list of extra files that will be in this zip folder include, this README, a computing environment file generated by our Data Cleaning file, which is useful for reproducibility, a PNG of our business value proposition, and a shell template and knitted shell template that are there for reference when creating the final dashboard.


# Overview of the Repository

The purpose of this repository is to interact with GitHub to access the files for our second project in ISA 616.  Below, I also include details about GitHub to help you in working in this environment.

## Project Overview

Annually, the FSB conducts a senior survey of graduates to learn of their employment status.  In addition, information is verified using LinkedIn and employer survey information.  The data you are provided ('FSB_BI_Survey_2019_2021.rds') contains data on graduates for 2019, 2020, and 2021.  The data are merged from two sources:  the senior survey, and data from the Miami University database.  

The data are anonymized, however it is possible that if you look hard enough, you can identify students.  You are bound, ethically not to do so.  It is a strict ethical code that you will not discuss individual data points with ANYONE except for me and your team.  Failure to comply with this code of ethics will result in a failing grade in the course.  

## Data Sources

You have three years of data representing FSB graduates, including graduates in 2019, 2020, and 2021.  The dataset provided had 42 variables.  The source is either derived by me during data cleaning/merging, from the Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) maintained by Miami adminsitration, or from the self reported senior survey.  I have cleaned and merged the files into one file.  

1.  nmajor: numeric,derived, the number of majors 
2.  major1: text, OBIEE, first major
3.  major 2: text, OBIEE, second major
4.  BBRJ: binary, OBIEE, an attribute of a student, but we do not know what this stands for
5.  Business Direct Admit: binary, OBIEE, a direct admit to FSB as a first year
6.  Combined Cacc and Masters: binary, OBIEE, combined degree student
7.  Dean's List: binary, OBIEE, achieve dean's list status at least once
8.  First Generation College Stdnt: binary, OBIEE, first generation student status
9.  FSB Scholars: binary, OBIEE, FSB scholars program
10.  Honors Program: binary, OBIEE, member of University honors program
11.  President's list: binary, OBIEE, achieved president's list at least once
12.  Study Abroud Courtesy Account: binary, OBIEE, do not know meaning
13.  Transfer Work: binary, OBIEE, do not know exact meaning
14.  Cum Laude: binary, OBIEE, graduated Cum Laude
15.  Magna Cum Laude: binary, OBIEE, graduated Magna Cum Laude
16.  Summa Cum Laude: binary, OBIEE, graduated Summa Cum Laude
17.  University Honors: binary, OBIEE, graduated with University Honors
18.  University Honors w/Distinction: binary, OBIEE, graduated with University Honors with Distinction
19.  minor1: text, OBIEE, first listed minor
20.  minor2: text, OBIEE, second listed minor
21.  IPEDS.Race.Ethnicity: text, OBIEE, race/ethnicity
22.  Gender: text, OBIEE, sex
23.  GPA.Range: text, OBIEE, GPA within a .5 range
24.  Term.Code: numberic, OBIEE, First four digits are the physcal year (beginning in July, e.g. July 2020 is FY 2021).  Last two digits is the term (10=fall, 15=winter, 20=spring, 30=summer).
25.  Year.x: text, derived, first four digits of Term.Code stored as a character variable
26.  latin_honors: text, survey, latin honors designation
27.  survey_city: text, survey, student reported city in which their job is located
28.  survey_company: text, survey, student reported company in which they accepted a job
29.  survey_deptfunc: text, survey, student reported job function
30.  survey_gradprogram: text, survey, student reported graduate program they will be attending
31.  survey_gradschool: text, survey, stuent reported graduate school they will be attending
32.  survey_internfour: text, survey, student reported fourth internship they held during college
33.  survey_internthree: text, survey, student reported third internship they held during college
34.  survey_interntwo: text, survey, student reported second internship they held during college
35.  survey_internone: text, survey, student reported first internship they held during college
36.  Survey_internships: text, survey, Student reported number of internships they held during college
37.  survey_offers: text, survey, student reported number of offers for full time employment received
38.  survey_plans: text, survey, student reported plans after graduation
39.  survey_pref_field: text, survey, student reported whether working in preferred field
40.  survey_pref_loc: text, survey, student reported whether working in preferred location
41.  survey_salary: numeric, survey, student reported salary
42.  survey_state: text, survey, student reported state in which job is located
